Dependency management (#10)
aiidateam/AEP: 999_dependency_management/readme.md

# AiiDA Enhancement Proposal (AEP) Guidelines

| AEP number | 999                                                          |
|------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Title      | AiiDA Enhancement Proposal (AEP) Guidelines                  |

Author: Thx for the catch, fixed.

Guidelines about tooling and the exact procedures for managing dependencies in the `setup.py` file and the generation of the `requirements.txt` file must be outlined in the wiki.
The DM is responsible for keeping these pages up-to-date and ensuring that tooling and continuous integration pipelines are conform with these procedures.

The CI test pipeline for release branches is to be executed for both specifications.
The first one to detect unexpected incompatibilities with the latest release version of the dependencies, the second one to test against a well-defined Python environment a user could recreate in an isolated environment.

This approach allows for more flexibility when installing the package into a given environment with either `pip install` or `python setup.py install`, but also provides users an option to install the package with a known set of tested dependencies, *e.g.*, with `pip install -r requirements.txt`.

> The dependencies for plugins should be specified in a similar fashion, however dependencies for plugin packages that are likely to be installed in isolation, *i.e.*, have more end-user application character, are encouraged to pin versions per developer discretion.

Reviewer: Would be good to give explicit examples here how plugins should depend on aiida-core.
E.g. `aiida-core~=1.0` vs `aiida-core==1.0.1`

Reviewer: Also, what are you actually saying here - are you saying that plugin developers *should* also provide a `requirements.txt`?
I think this suggestion actually applies to the latter case you mention (which, however, is rather unusual).

Author: I think that the same issues that we experience with aiida-core would also be a problem with various plug-ins, so yes, installation dependencies should be only as stringent as needed, the specific environment a plugin was tested in should be specified in the `requirements.txt` file. I can try to clarify that.

> The dependencies for plugins should be specified in a similar fashion, however dependencies for plugin packages that are likely to be installed in isolation, *i.e.*, have more end-user application character, are encouraged to pin versions per developer discretion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AiiDA plugin packages should provide a `setup.py` with dependencies specified as described above, e.g. `aiida-core~=1.0`. 
For packages that have a clear end-user application character, developers may decide to pin the versions of selected dependencies more rigorously -- however, we recommend using a `requirements.txt` for such cases instead.
```
